NOTES.rst, before:

Once upon a time
================

.. Blaithnaid is pronounced 'Blo - nid'.

.. Blacksmith has many names. How to discover them?

Jack and Morten
---------------

Once upon a time, not far from here, there was a young Farm Boy, called Jack.

His parents were elderly and sick. He had no brothers or sisters nor cousins nor aunts or uncles.

And the land they lived on was very poor.

This boy Jack had a plough horse, and every day he would take Morten (that was his name)
to try to work a bit of good, whether it was clearing a ditch, or turning over some sod, or fixing a wall.

Now Morten was a stout horse and very obedient, but he was past his prime.

Ageing too was the kit that Jack had.
The bridles were mouldy, and the harrows were rusty, and the buckets came apart in your hand.

Also the ground, which was a horrible stodge of stone and clay, must have had some curse upon it.
It bent the plough, it clogged the bridges, it pulled every shoe from poor Morten's spongy old feet.

The Blacksmith
--------------

And so it was that Jack was a regular visitor to the local Blacksmith.

And one day, when Morten had shed a shoe, and Jack couldn't see where it had fallen,
he led his horse onto the narrow track and over to the Forge.

Now the Blacksmith had a daughter, who was very pretty, and Jack's age. Her name was Blathnaid.

We aren't going to hear much about Blathnaid just now though, because the Blacksmith keeps her hidden
whenever Jack shows up. He worries that Blathnaid, who sketches pictures of young men with their horses,
might be thinking of Jack more often than is good for her.

He has hopes she will marry into money, and doesn't want her going off with
some young villain who can't pay his bills.

Open for business
-----------------

The front part of the forge, where the anvil often is, was open on three sides.
There stood the Blacksmith, warming against the furnace. He had been watching Jack approach up the path,
and could tell from Morten's stepping what the matter was about.

He took the end of rope from Jack's hand and steadied Morten for a moment.
Then he led the horse to a rail where he tied him up next to a butt of water.

Shoes
-----

I should tell you a little more about the Blacksmith, but I don't want to hold up the rest of the story.
I'll just say that he was a very wise man. He spoke easily with people, and he listened carefully to animals.
He wasn't only a skilled Blacksmith, but also a clever Armourer, and a reliable Farrier.

He hated to see people sick, or animals hurt. And so without a word he began to check on Morten; his eyes,
his teeth, his belly. And then to his hooves, whereupon he groaned quietly on seeing the state of each of them.

The forge
---------

Jack knew he had no way to pay the Blacksmith, so he found it difficult to stand and watch him work.
Instead he wandered across to the other end of the forge, where he was out of sight for a while.

Up above, the roof was supported by a sturdy iron frame, from which a chain hoist dangled. From the dark
corners of the eves, Jack could hear rustling and squeaking.

In the middle of the workshop was the bottom half of a great casting mold.
And here was all sorts of clutter piled up waiting for the next smelting; bags of bent and flaking nails,
broken hasps and gears and levers. All damp and coated in bat droppings and bloom.

Send me the Bill
----------------

Finally, when the horse was fully shod, the Blacksmith ducked back into where Jack had been standing.
"All's done", said the smith, standing fully in the doorway.

"Dad thanks you", said Jack without much conviction.

"That's certain, Jack. And we must reckon up, presently. For today and for times past."

Broke
-----

In those days you see, people would always help their neighbours whenever there was need. And if they got to
owing they would settle up at Yuletide. Jack blushed to think that this year there had been very little to offer anyone.
And the Blacksmith was chief among their creditors. According to custom, Jack bowed and asked how he might
be of service.

Errand
------

"I do have an errand for you", says the Blacksmith. "There is a message to deliver. It will be some days travel."

Packing
-------

So Jack went home, and hunted around the little cottage for whatever might be useful on a journey.
He found so little food in the place that he dared not take any, for fear of leaving his parents in
want while he was away.

He picked out a woollen blanket to sleep in, which he laid out before the fire so the damp would drive away.
He found a leather bottle, which he warmed up and replenished with wax. In the morning he would fill it with
water from the stream behind the house. He had a can with a lid so he could boil it up, and some kindling,
a blade, and a flint.

Morten would have to forage. And Jack would go hungry. But he was not dismayed.
He fell asleep before the grate, happy for the first time in months.

Reporting for Duty
------------------

The Trivet
----------

The Blacksmith reached under the bench and pulled out a chunk of iron, round in shape, and about the size of his hand.
He looked at it thoughtfully for a moment, before taking a rough brush to scrub away the rust.

It was a trivet, such as you'd use to balance a kettle above a fire. This one was solidly made, but in a decorative
design; it had curved spokes like the wheel of some fantastic chariot. Around the circumference were embossed letters,
not yet clear enough to read.

A token
-------

The Blacksmith opened a small tin box, taking from it a wrap of waxed paper and a metal tool, like a saddler's punch.

Then he heated a small billet of iron, about the size of a pea pod, which had a hole in one end.
Peeling apart the paper, despite his grimy fingers, he carefully removed a small thin sheet of white metal foil.
With the iron still hot, he deftly dropped the metal foil upon the surface, and placing the punch on top, struck
it smartly with a hammer.

After it had cooled, the Blacksmith slipped a leather cord through the hole and placed it around the boy's neck.
Jack saw that within the metal was now a circular seal of an intricate design, which by some strange
chemistry glowed green.

The Mission
-----------

The Blacksmith led Jack away from the building and on to the open road. "Jack, you are to go to the City", he said.
"Follow the road East. The charm I have given you will allow you in. But listen; the rise of the New Moon will
stop it shining. After that it is useless."

"When you get inside, seek out the Master of the Guild of Smiths. The guild sign looks very like this trivet you carry.
He will know who sends you by the charm around your neck."

"Tell him this; that Blathnaid is of age to marry. And now you must go."

They set off
------------

So Jack set off. The first few miles east were familiar to him, passing through places he had been before.
At the little hamlets on the way, he would look to catch the eye of anyone around, and wave and bid them good day.
He felt very proud and important to be on an errand to the City.

As the miles rolled on, and the day grew late, he started to notice a change in the country. The hedges were less
well kept than before. The ditches were choked and the signposts and milestones overgrown with weed.

In the evening he spied ahead a group of tents and carts. He guessed this would be tinkers, who move about
wherever there is work. When he was younger they'd occasionally passed by, and his Mother had brought out the old tin bath
for them to mend.

The encampment was at the side of the road, and several people were tending fires or smoking pipes or feeding donkeys.
Jack greeted them every one, and some replied and some did not. They did not seem to be tinkers at all. There were many
children, and some old folk. And they were not very organised, and they all looked tired, and cold, and hungry.

Of course, Jack had no food, and none was offered to him. So he built a little fire away from the main group, and
set up the trivet, and boiled up some water.

Now this trivet was very special; only a few Blacksmiths know how to make such a thing.
Because whatever you brewed upon it, however little tea you had; in fact, no matter if you were only boiling hay,
that brew would nourish and cheer you throughout, and you would not feel the lack of a meal.

So Jack rolled himself up in his blanket, near to the fire, all warm and comfy.
Morten settled down under a tree, happy to be away from the plough, and very pleased with his new shoes.

Towards the City
----------------

They awoke in the grey of early dawn, and were soon on their way again.
As they they went on, the road east got broader.
The Villages they passed through were more frequent. The bigger they got, the more shabby they seemed to be.
The countryside around was ever more sad and bare, with less and less forage for Morten.

And so for three more days they travelled. Jack could tell Morten was getting tired, and tried not to ride him, but led
him for miles at a time by the bridle. He would pat the horse's flank, and worry about how skinny his ribs were becoming.

Jack had ceased to greet other travellers on the road, and preferred very much to camp alone. As he lay looking up
at the stars, he would take out the locket the Blacksmith had made for him, and marvel at how it glowed in the darkness.
The New Moon was yet two weeks away. Plenty of time to deliver a message, thought Jack. And as he looked east he spied
another glow. The bonfires and braziers of the City were only a few hours away now.

The City
--------

The last few miles were grim. There was not a tree or bush to be seen now; only a blasted and boggy heath. The road was
lined on both sides by ragged camps; turves piled up for walls, rooved with the wreckage of tattered wagons.
And everywhere, the sounds and smells of sad and hungry people.

The road was controlled by troops, who barred the way to the City and only opened the barricades at certain times of day.

In his whole life, Jack had never stood in a line for anything, and the longer he waited the less sure of himself he
became. Finally, at the barrier, whereupon a sourfaced man in a leather tunic demanded to know what was his business,
Jack could only hold up the locket and say, "I carry a message". That seemed to suffice; the guard lifted his truncheon
and waved him through.

The walls of the City lay before them, and the road led up to an enormous gate. There was another line here. Scores of carts
stood by, piled up with all kinds of goods. There were angry voices as traders argued with guards and revenue men. Jack went on
past. He gathered his few belongings from Morten's back, and hoisted them on his own. Then he aimed for a smaller door next
to the main entry which seemed to be open to those on foot.

The smaller gate was flanked by two guards, sternly on duty. They held short, solid pikes with evil-looking hooks at the end.
One of the men stepped forward to take Morten's bridle. The other offered the point of his weapon and advised Jack he should
explain himself or go back where he came.

Jack repeated the words that had got him past the previous challenge. This time, the guard studied the locket
carefully, before finally nodding. Then he asked, in a mocking way, whether the horse carried a message too, and where
was his token for entry?

The first guard tied poor Morten to a gatepost, saying, "if you won't feed him, you shouldn't keep him".
The second man joked, "sure, he'll eat very well presently!" There was nothing that Jack could do but step through the
gate while he was able, to the laughter of the guards as he passed.

Inside
------

Inside the wall, Jack found himself on a raised buttress, with stone battlements on either side. Two flights of steps led
down to street level. He tripped and tumbled down them, so upset was he at the loss of Morten. In the street,
several fellows who were gathered there took notice of him and Jack realised he had better recover his wits or else be
robbed again. He hurried ahead until he got to a spot where he could not be surprised. There he sank to his
haunches, steadied his breathing, and began to look around.

Refuge
------

.. TODO::

During the day, this part of town is OK because of guards. After curfew, very rough. Needs to survive his first night.

The Friend
----------

Trivet is a Guild sign and is everywhere. Jack tries to spot all three Ss, but without result.
Finally, the friend approaches him; he's seen Jack use the Trivet.

Aenaena
-------

.. TODO::

She used to work in the Temple but has her own modelling business now. Also does private shows.
In her spare time she draws pictures of the clients who haven't paid her. Pins them up outside to shame them.
Jack recognises one of them?

Reference only fans, clothing try-ons.

Moody
-----

.. FIXME::

As Jack was taking a safe line across the street, he became aware of someone who seemed not to be
going anywhere in particular, athough he was moving after a fashion. Moving so as not to get anywhere.
Walking all the time like a man crossing a wobbly bridge. But then having reached the end,
turning round and coming back again.

Jack tried to avoid the fellow, but could not; the skill of the man was to attach himself to others
and stick along like a lonely puppy.

.. todo:: Moody tries to push a black pill to stave off hunger (Amsterdam)

First impressions of Moody
--------------------------

"Hey mate, are you hungry?", said the stranger, two or three times without waiting for an answer.
Jack looked boldly into the cowl and two green eyes looked back at him. Green eyes beneath
a long fringe of straw-coloured hair. They stood at the same height, contemplating each other for a moment.
They might have been brothers. Twins even, save that Jack's suntanned face was several shades darker than
the pale, sickly aspect of the other.

Jack looked down to see that the lad had pressed into his hand a black pillule, ugly like a rotten tooth.
"That'll take your mind off it.", said the stranger. "Lasts all day, lasts all day."

Jack tried to give it back. "I don't want it", he said. "Anyway, I haven't any money".
The stranger looked shocked at this breach of protocol. "I'll make you a gift, then!", he proclaimed.
"You come back and see me when you do have some money. I'm Moody. Ask around for Moody."

And with that he suddenly span on his heel, and in one movement attached himself to another in the street,
a skinny man who had tried to cross over to avoid him, and had not crossed fast enough.

First meeting Aenaena
---------------------

Something out of the corner of Jack's eye made him pause mid-step. He turned his head to see more.
Ten yards away a young woman with copper red hair was looking straight at him. She was seated in the back
of a sort of cabin, with windows so wide and high there seemed almost to be no walls to it at all.

"Hello", she said. "Come on over."
Jack was all confusion, but he went up to the open door.

The place was newly built of wood, but attached to the very old dwelling behind it. It was freshly painted,
and nicely decorated with ribbons and ornaments. There was an urn on the floor from which a light
smoke arose. Woody and spicy, a fragrance so beguiling it seemed absolutely happy and right to
loosen one's boots and undo the buttons of one's shirt.

The girl was young, maybe not yet Jack's age. She had on a pretty bodice, which showed a great deal
of her shoulders.

"I'm Aenaena", said she. And indeed, the ribbons hanging from
the walls bore that very name. "Sit here and keep me company. I don't have anyone to talk to."

There was a chair next to her so Jack dropped his belongings inside the door and sat awkwardly down.
He was at once terrified and fascinated. He tried very hard not to glance down, where a slit in
Aenaena's skirt showed a beautiful smooth white thigh.

Weave
-----

Sensitivity             Simplicity          Spontaneity
            Cognition              Courage             Compassion

Kroll
-----

The name of that spirit is Krol.

I am not the world expert on Krol.
What I have heard about him would fill a book, although not all of that can have been the truth.

I know he'd been an important figure in Antiquity. And he wore flesh again in our modern age,
and performed many brave deeds here.

But at the time of this story he was held back in the Netherworld. For reasons I don't understand,
his spirit was bound to the Town Square, and the best he could manage was to manifest in the cellar
of that Tavern, when the moon was full enough to shine through the bars of the window.

The Council
-----------

The Blacksmith has not anticipated the challenges that Jack has had to face.
The Council demand Jack proves his bona fides as an apprentice, when of course he has had no training.
Yet what he has learned on the journey might be sufficient.

For best player experience, there ought to be some risk.

Payback
-------

All at once there was a strange shift in the structure of the Smithy. From the space in the roof poured out
in their hundreds a thick swarm of bats. In a flurry of fur and leather they ascended in a column like the smoke of a
wet chimney.

As they beat their wings, they raised an evil cloud of dust and metal.
This haze rose up until the sun itself burned white and fierce like a miner's match.

Then all together they turned and headed east towards the City.

The Return
----------

Two graves, an apple tree and an Oak tree.

Ideas
-----

* Smiths in the city have been forbidden from making knives. New guild of Cutlers
* Only guards and smiths allowed fires
* The bats eavesdrop (listen)

Sayings
-------

Raro antecedentem scelestum deseruit pede poena claudo. (Horace)
Retribution, to retrain an injury, relentlesly hunts the wicked.

fides qua creditur numquam falletur
Full faith that is never broken
Sic semper corruptionis

Characters
----------

* Jack
* Blathnaid Ni Callan
* Krol      (Courage)
* Aenaena   (Compassion)
* Moody     (Cognition)
* Gillian
* Two guards
* Ingomer Billwiggin (Mayor)
* Niall Cradely (Blacksmith)


The Hydrogen Plant
------------------

The Book of Secrets
-------------------

* Weathermaking
* Microstrip circuits
* Aerodynamics
* Resonant structures

Tech
----

Input field does intellisense as words are typed
Story has endpoint to serve available commands by string prefix.
.. todo:: Balladeer exaample

Commit message:

First words on access to cellar.

NOTES.rst, after:

Once upon a time
================

.. Blaithnaid is pronounced 'Blo - nid'.

.. Blacksmith has many names. How to discover them?

Jack and Morten
---------------

Once upon a time, not far from here, there was a young Farm Boy, called Jack.

His parents were elderly and sick. He had no brothers or sisters nor cousins nor aunts or uncles.

And the land they lived on was very poor.

This boy Jack had a plough horse, and every day he would take Morten (that was his name)
to try to work a bit of good, whether it was clearing a ditch, or turning over some sod, or fixing a wall.

Now Morten was a stout horse and very obedient, but he was past his prime.

Ageing too was the kit that Jack had.
The bridles were mouldy, and the harrows were rusty, and the buckets came apart in your hand.

Also the ground, which was a horrible stodge of stone and clay, must have had some curse upon it.
It bent the plough, it clogged the bridges, it pulled every shoe from poor Morten's spongy old feet.

The Blacksmith
--------------

And so it was that Jack was a regular visitor to the local Blacksmith.

And one day, when Morten had shed a shoe, and Jack couldn't see where it had fallen,
he led his horse onto the narrow track and over to the Forge.

Now the Blacksmith had a daughter, who was very pretty, and Jack's age. Her name was Blathnaid.

We aren't going to hear much about Blathnaid just now though, because the Blacksmith keeps her hidden
whenever Jack shows up. He worries that Blathnaid, who sketches pictures of young men with their horses,
might be thinking of Jack more often than is good for her.

He has hopes she will marry into money, and doesn't want her going off with
some young villain who can't pay his bills.

Open for business
-----------------

The front part of the forge, where the anvil often is, was open on three sides.
There stood the Blacksmith, warming against the furnace. He had been watching Jack approach up the path,
and could tell from Morten's stepping what the matter was about.

He took the end of rope from Jack's hand and steadied Morten for a moment.
Then he led the horse to a rail where he tied him up next to a butt of water.

Shoes
-----

I should tell you a little more about the Blacksmith, but I don't want to hold up the rest of the story.
I'll just say that he was a very wise man. He spoke easily with people, and he listened carefully to animals.
He wasn't only a skilled Blacksmith, but also a clever Armourer, and a reliable Farrier.

He hated to see people sick, or animals hurt. And so without a word he began to check on Morten; his eyes,
his teeth, his belly. And then to his hooves, whereupon he groaned quietly on seeing the state of each of them.

The forge
---------

Jack knew he had no way to pay the Blacksmith, so he found it difficult to stand and watch him work.
Instead he wandered across to the other end of the forge, where he was out of sight for a while.

Up above, the roof was supported by a sturdy iron frame, from which a chain hoist dangled. From the dark
corners of the eves, Jack could hear rustling and squeaking.

In the middle of the workshop was the bottom half of a great casting mold.
And here was all sorts of clutter piled up waiting for the next smelting; bags of bent and flaking nails,
broken hasps and gears and levers. All damp and coated in bat droppings and bloom.

Send me the Bill
----------------

Finally, when the horse was fully shod, the Blacksmith ducked back into where Jack had been standing.
"All's done", said the smith, standing fully in the doorway.

"Dad thanks you", said Jack without much conviction.

"That's certain, Jack. And we must reckon up, presently. For today and for times past."

Broke
-----

In those days you see, people would always help their neighbours whenever there was need. And if they got to
owing they would settle up at Yuletide. Jack blushed to think that this year there had been very little to offer anyone.
And the Blacksmith was chief among their creditors. According to custom, Jack bowed and asked how he might
be of service.

Errand
------

"I do have an errand for you", says the Blacksmith. "There is a message to deliver. It will be some days travel."

Packing
-------

So Jack went home, and hunted around the little cottage for whatever might be useful on a journey.
He found so little food in the place that he dared not take any, for fear of leaving his parents in
want while he was away.

He picked out a woollen blanket to sleep in, which he laid out before the fire so the damp would drive away.
He found a leather bottle, which he warmed up and replenished with wax. In the morning he would fill it with
water from the stream behind the house. He had a can with a lid so he could boil it up, and some kindling,
a blade, and a flint.

Morten would have to forage. And Jack would go hungry. But he was not dismayed.
He fell asleep before the grate, happy for the first time in months.

Reporting for Duty
------------------

The Trivet
----------

The Blacksmith reached under the bench and pulled out a chunk of iron, round in shape, and about the size of his hand.
He looked at it thoughtfully for a moment, before taking a rough brush to scrub away the rust.

It was a trivet, such as you'd use to balance a kettle above a fire. This one was solidly made, but in a decorative
design; it had curved spokes like the wheel of some fantastic chariot. Around the circumference were embossed letters,
not yet clear enough to read.

A token
-------

The Blacksmith opened a small tin box, taking from it a wrap of waxed paper and a metal tool, like a saddler's punch.

Then he heated a small billet of iron, about the size of a pea pod, which had a hole in one end.
Peeling apart the paper, despite his grimy fingers, he carefully removed a small thin sheet of white metal foil.
With the iron still hot, he deftly dropped the metal foil upon the surface, and placing the punch on top, struck
it smartly with a hammer.

After it had cooled, the Blacksmith slipped a leather cord through the hole and placed it around the boy's neck.
Jack saw that within the metal was now a circular seal of an intricate design, which by some strange
chemistry glowed green.

The Mission
-----------

The Blacksmith led Jack away from the building and on to the open road. "Jack, you are to go to the City", he said.
"Follow the road East. The charm I have given you will allow you in. But listen; the rise of the New Moon will
stop it shining. After that it is useless."

"When you get inside, seek out the Master of the Guild of Smiths. The guild sign looks very like this trivet you carry.
He will know who sends you by the charm around your neck."

"Tell him this; that Blathnaid is of age to marry. And now you must go."

They set off
------------

So Jack set off. The first few miles east were familiar to him, passing through places he had been before.
At the little hamlets on the way, he would look to catch the eye of anyone around, and wave and bid them good day.
He felt very proud and important to be on an errand to the City.

As the miles rolled on, and the day grew late, he started to notice a change in the country. The hedges were less
well kept than before. The ditches were choked and the signposts and milestones overgrown with weed.

In the evening he spied ahead a group of tents and carts. He guessed this would be tinkers, who move about
wherever there is work. When he was younger they'd occasionally passed by, and his Mother had brought out the old tin bath
for them to mend.

The encampment was at the side of the road, and several people were tending fires or smoking pipes or feeding donkeys.
Jack greeted them every one, and some replied and some did not. They did not seem to be tinkers at all. There were many
children, and some old folk. And they were not very organised, and they all looked tired, and cold, and hungry.

Of course, Jack had no food, and none was offered to him. So he built a little fire away from the main group, and
set up the trivet, and boiled up some water.

Now this trivet was very special; only a few Blacksmiths know how to make such a thing.
Because whatever you brewed upon it, however little tea you had; in fact, no matter if you were only boiling hay,
that brew would nourish and cheer you throughout, and you would not feel the lack of a meal.

So Jack rolled himself up in his blanket, near to the fire, all warm and comfy.
Morten settled down under a tree, happy to be away from the plough, and very pleased with his new shoes.

Towards the City
----------------

They awoke in the grey of early dawn, and were soon on their way again.
As they they went on, the road east got broader.
The Villages they passed through were more frequent. The bigger they got, the more shabby they seemed to be.
The countryside around was ever more sad and bare, with less and less forage for Morten.

And so for three more days they travelled. Jack could tell Morten was getting tired, and tried not to ride him, but led
him for miles at a time by the bridle. He would pat the horse's flank, and worry about how skinny his ribs were becoming.

Jack had ceased to greet other travellers on the road, and preferred very much to camp alone. As he lay looking up
at the stars, he would take out the locket the Blacksmith had made for him, and marvel at how it glowed in the darkness.
The New Moon was yet two weeks away. Plenty of time to deliver a message, thought Jack. And as he looked east he spied
another glow. The bonfires and braziers of the City were only a few hours away now.

The City
--------

The last few miles were grim. There was not a tree or bush to be seen now; only a blasted and boggy heath. The road was
lined on both sides by ragged camps; turves piled up for walls, rooved with the wreckage of tattered wagons.
And everywhere, the sounds and smells of sad and hungry people.

The road was controlled by troops, who barred the way to the City and only opened the barricades at certain times of day.

In his whole life, Jack had never stood in a line for anything, and the longer he waited the less sure of himself he
became. Finally, at the barrier, whereupon a sourfaced man in a leather tunic demanded to know what was his business,
Jack could only hold up the locket and say, "I carry a message". That seemed to suffice; the guard lifted his truncheon
and waved him through.

The walls of the City lay before them, and the road led up to an enormous gate. There was another line here. Scores of carts
stood by, piled up with all kinds of goods. There were angry voices as traders argued with guards and revenue men. Jack went on
past. He gathered his few belongings from Morten's back, and hoisted them on his own. Then he aimed for a smaller door next
to the main entry which seemed to be open to those on foot.

The smaller gate was flanked by two guards, sternly on duty. They held short, solid pikes with evil-looking hooks at the end.
One of the men stepped forward to take Morten's bridle. The other offered the point of his weapon and advised Jack he should
explain himself or go back where he came.

Jack repeated the words that had got him past the previous challenge. This time, the guard studied the locket
carefully, before finally nodding. Then he asked, in a mocking way, whether the horse carried a message too, and where
was his token for entry?

The first guard tied poor Morten to a gatepost, saying, "if you won't feed him, you shouldn't keep him".
The second man joked, "sure, he'll eat very well presently!" There was nothing that Jack could do but step through the
gate while he was able, to the laughter of the guards as he passed.

Inside
------

Inside the wall, Jack found himself on a raised buttress, with stone battlements on either side. Two flights of steps led
down to street level. He tripped and tumbled down them, so upset was he at the loss of Morten. In the street,
several fellows who were gathered there took notice of him and Jack realised he had better recover his wits or else be
robbed again. He hurried ahead until he got to a spot where he could not be surprised. There he sank to his
haunches, steadied his breathing, and began to look around.

Environment
-----------

Jack feared very much getting lost in the city, and perhaps cornered in some alley by thieves. In the first,
he had no worries; only a few main streets of the city were open to all. Every neighbourhood, where families were
established, had set up barricades and gates, protected by their own, and only permitting to pass their oen through.

Eevry building in the main thoroughfare, and at the dock next to the river, was barred and locked and secured against
strangers.

Jack found himself watching as two dreyman brought in barrels to the cellar. And he saw that every time the cellar
hatch banged shut, the hasp on it shook a little loose. Now when the dreyman left, they were careful to place a chain
on the door.

So Jack waited until there was some commotion further up the street, and all heads were turned. Then went over to
the hatch and was able to work the bolt out of its seat, lift up one half of the hatchway, and slip inside.

Refuge
------

.. TODO::

During the day, this part of town is OK because of guards. After curfew, very rough. Needs to survive his first night.

The Friend
----------

Trivet is a Guild sign and is everywhere. Jack tries to spot all three Ss, but without result.
Finally, the friend approaches him; he's seen Jack use the Trivet.

Aenaena
-------

.. TODO::

She used to work in the Temple but has her own modelling business now. Also does private shows.
In her spare time she draws pictures of the clients who haven't paid her. Pins them up outside to shame them.
Jack recognises one of them?

Reference only fans, clothing try-ons.

Moody
-----

.. FIXME::

As Jack was taking a safe line across the street, he became aware of someone who seemed not to be
going anywhere in particular, athough he was moving after a fashion. Moving so as not to get anywhere.
Walking all the time like a man crossing a wobbly bridge. But then having reached the end,
turning round and coming back again.

Jack tried to avoid the fellow, but could not; the skill of the man was to attach himself to others
and stick along like a lonely puppy.

.. todo:: Moody tries to push a black pill to stave off hunger (Amsterdam)

First impressions of Moody
--------------------------

"Hey mate, are you hungry?", said the stranger, two or three times without waiting for an answer.
Jack looked boldly into the cowl and two green eyes looked back at him. Green eyes beneath
a long fringe of straw-coloured hair. They stood at the same height, contemplating each other for a moment.
They might have been brothers. Twins even, save that Jack's suntanned face was several shades darker than
the pale, sickly aspect of the other.

Jack looked down to see that the lad had pressed into his hand a black pillule, ugly like a rotten tooth.
"That'll take your mind off it.", said the stranger. "Lasts all day, lasts all day."

Jack tried to give it back. "I don't want it", he said. "Anyway, I haven't any money".
The stranger looked shocked at this breach of protocol. "I'll make you a gift, then!", he proclaimed.
"You come back and see me when you do have some money. I'm Moody. Ask around for Moody."

And with that he suddenly span on his heel, and in one movement attached himself to another in the street,
a skinny man who had tried to cross over to avoid him, and had not crossed fast enough.

First meeting Aenaena
---------------------

Something out of the corner of Jack's eye made him pause mid-step. He turned his head to see more.
Ten yards away a young woman with copper red hair was looking straight at him. She was seated in the back
of a sort of cabin, with windows so wide and high there seemed almost to be no walls to it at all.

"Hello", she said. "Come on over."
Jack was all confusion, but he went up to the open door.

The place was newly built of wood, but attached to the very old dwelling behind it. It was freshly painted,
and nicely decorated with ribbons and ornaments. There was an urn on the floor from which a light
smoke arose. Woody and spicy, a fragrance so beguiling it seemed absolutely happy and right to
loosen one's boots and undo the buttons of one's shirt.

The girl was young, maybe not yet Jack's age. She had on a pretty bodice, which showed a great deal
of her shoulders.

"I'm Aenaena", said she. And indeed, the ribbons hanging from
the walls bore that very name. "Sit here and keep me company. I don't have anyone to talk to."

There was a chair next to her so Jack dropped his belongings inside the door and sat awkwardly down.
He was at once terrified and fascinated. He tried very hard not to glance down, where a slit in
Aenaena's skirt showed a beautiful smooth white thigh.

Weave
-----

Sensitivity             Simplicity          Spontaneity
            Cognition              Courage             Compassion

Kroll
-----

The name of that spirit is Krol.

I am not the world expert on Krol.
What I have heard about him would fill a book, although not all of that can have been the truth.

I know he'd been an important figure in Antiquity. And he wore flesh again in our modern age,
and performed many brave deeds here.

But at the time of this story he was held back in the Netherworld. For reasons I don't understand,
his spirit was bound to the Town Square, and the best he could manage was to manifest in the cellar
of that Tavern, when the moon was full enough to shine through the bars of the window.

Only when Gibbous. That leaves 7 nights of waning crescent before New Moon.

The Council
-----------

The Blacksmith has not anticipated the challenges that Jack has had to face.
The Council demand Jack proves his bona fides as an apprentice, when of course he has had no training.
Yet what he has learned on the journey might be sufficient.

For best player experience, there ought to be some risk.

Payback
-------

All at once there was a strange shift in the structure of the Smithy. From the space in the roof poured out
in their hundreds a thick swarm of bats. In a flurry of fur and leather they ascended in a column like the smoke of a
wet chimney.

As they beat their wings, they raised an evil cloud of dust and metal.
This haze rose up until the sun itself burned white and fierce like a miner's match.

Then all together they turned and headed east towards the City.

The Return
----------

Two graves, an apple tree and an Oak tree.

Ideas
-----

* Smiths in the city have been forbidden from making knives. New guild of Cutlers
* Only guards and smiths allowed fires
* The bats eavesdrop (listen)

Sayings
-------

Raro antecedentem scelestum deseruit pede poena claudo. (Horace)
Retribution, to retrain an injury, relentlesly hunts the wicked.

fides qua creditur numquam falletur
Full faith that is never broken
Sic semper corruptionis

Characters
----------

* Jack
* Blathnaid Ni Callan
* Krol      (Courage)
* Aenaena   (Compassion)
* Moody     (Cognition)
* Gillian
* Two guards
* Ingomer Billwiggin (Mayor)
* Niall Cradely (Blacksmith)


The Hydrogen Plant
------------------

The Book of Secrets
-------------------

* Weathermaking
* Microstrip circuits
* Aerodynamics
* Resonant structures

Tech
----

Input field does intellisense as words are typed
Story has endpoint to serve available commands by string prefix.
.. todo:: Balladeer exaample
